# How to upgrade from TDW v1.6 to TDW v1.7

### Read the changelog

[Read this](../Changelog.md) for a complete list of changes.

### Physics and the Unity Engine

We upgraded Unity3D from 2019.2 to 2019.4. The biggest difference is the physics engine. **Physics simulations will behave somewhat differently between TDW v1.6 and v1.7,** however, they will probably work *better* in any scenario.

- Unity 2019.4 includes an updated physics engine with various subtle improvements to performance and accuracy.
- We've enabled the "Enhanced Determinism" option and benchmarked the difference; physics in TDW will be far more deterministic between trials than in prior versions.
- We've set `continuous_dynamic` as the default collision detection mode, as opposed to `continuous_speculative` because it is much more accurate in TDW simulations. You can revert to the old collision detection mode by sending the following commands for each object and avatar:

```json
{"$type": "set_avatar_collision_detection_mode", "mode": "continuous_speculative", "avatar_id": avatar_id}
```

```json
{"$type": "set_object_collision_detection_mode", "id": object_id, "mode": "continuous_speculative"}
```

### Removed commands

- `set_flex_object_scale` was removed because it doesn't work well. You can safely scale an object with `scale_object` *before* flex-ifying it.
- `send_avatar_children_names` was removed because this information is returned via the command `send_avatar_segmentation_colors`.

### Asset Bundle Creator

If you've used the [Asset Bundle Creator](../misc_frontend/add_local_object.md) in TDW v1.6 or prior, delete the directory. The next time you use the Asset Bundle Creator, it will recreate the directory and Unity project.