# How to upgrade from TDW v1.7 to TDW v1.8

## Read the changelog

[Read this](../Changelog.md) for a complete list of changes.

## Known bugs

#### Bug: Can't create a Linux build without deleting some Flex shader files

~~_(This is relevant only to users who have access to the C# source code in the private TDWBase repo.)_~~

~~To create a Linux build, delete all Flex shaders located in `TDWBase/Assets/NVIDIA/Flex/Resources/Shaders` that have `DrawParticles` or `Fluid` in their name. Otherwise, the Editor will crash to desktop. This is handled automatically when we build and upload TDW releases to GitHub.~~

**Update**: Fixed as of March 7, 2021, having upgraded to Unity 2020.2.7

#### Bug: Can't draw Flex particles on Linux

It's currently not possible to draw Flex particles (`"draw_particles"` in the Command API) in Linux. Attempting to create a build with the Flex particle shaders for Linux results in a crash-to-desktop. This is new as of Unity 2020.2.2 and it is likely that a future Unity Engine upgrade (i.e. to Unity 2020.2.x) will fix it. As a matter of course, we apply minor Unity Engine updates to TDW whenever they're available. Should one of these updates fix this particular issue, we'll note it in the changelog.

**Update**: This has probably been fixed (see update note from March 7 in the above section). However, we don't have Ubuntu 16 test machines and haven't been able to test Flex on Linux.

## Renamed some streamed scenes

We updated the asset bundles of some streamed scenes to make them compatible with Unity 2020.2; we didn't introduce any changes that would affect the scenes at runtime.

`tdw_room_2018` has been renamed `tdw_room` and `archviz_house_2018` been renamed `archviz_house`. If your controller references either scene, you need to change the scene name accordingly.

## Graphics improvements

There was a persistent bug in TDW that caused certain models and materials to not cast shadows or reflect light correctly. This has been fixed.

We strongly recommend using the rendering as-is because rendering is superior to previous versions of TDW without affecting performance. If your project was made in a pre-v1.8 version of TDW and it's absolutely required that the rendering stay the same, you can send this command:

```python
{"$type": "set_legacy_shaders", "value": True}
```

Additionally, the post-process vignette affect is now disabled by default. To re-enable it:

```python
{"$type": "set_vingette", "enabled": True}
```

## Fixed the `_depth`, `_depth_simple`, and `_normals` passes

The fixes to the `_depth` and `_depth_simple` passes were introduced in the last few v1.7 releases, but they're worth mentioning here: the depth data is now *far* more accurate. It's also a different format. All other passes are .jpg or .png byte arrays. The `_depth` and `_depth_simple` passes are raw RGB numpy arrays because we found that encoding to png resulted in a loss of information. This means that depth images need to be encoded to png before being saved to disk. This is handled automatically by `TDWUtils.save_images()` but if you've been saving images with your own code, you might need to review the code within `TDWUtils.save_images()` to see how to save a depth image.

Additionally, we found that the `_normals` pass was inaccurate for similar underlying reasons. This has been fixed as of TDW v1.8.0 (_not_ v1.7). The `_normals` pass is still encoded as a .png file, so you won't have to change any of your code to write it to disk. 

## Compiling a build takes much more time

_(This is relevant only to users who have access to the C# source code in the private TDWBase repo.)_ 

Creating a build in Unity Editor can take much more time than in previous versions of TDW. This is because Unity needs to compile a lot of missing shaders in order to fix long-standing graphics issues (see above). Creating a build can take 10-15 minutes. While we're still understanding this process, it seems that Unity Editor will cache some of the shader data, meaning that the next time you create a build, it will be much faster. Upgrading Unity Engine will likely clear this cache, as will "Reimport All".

## Linux and OS X builds now have execute permissions

By default, all Linux and OS X builds will have execute permissions correctly set. In order to preserve this, the builds are now stored as .tar.gz instead of .zip

 ## Removed commands

Removed `toggle_image_sensor`. You should use `enable_image_sensor` instead.

## Asset Bundle Creator

If you've used the [Asset Bundle Creator](../misc_frontend/add_local_object.md) in TDW v1.7 or prior, delete the directory. The next time you use the Asset Bundle Creator, it will recreate the directory and Unity project.

## Deprecated the Sticky Mitten Avatar and added the Magnebot

**The Sticky Mitten Avatar has been deprecated,** meaning that we don't plan to continuously improve the Sticky Mitten Avatar unless a specific ongoing project needs support.

The Sticky Mitten Avatar has been replaced with the [Magnebot](../misc_frontend/robots.md) which has a new [high-level API](https://github.com/alters-mit/magnebot). The Magnebot retains most of the same functionality as the Sticky Mitten Avatar but *far* less buggy. We strongly recommend any new projects that want to use TDW for quasi-robotics experiments to use the Magnebot, and we encourage anyone still using the Sticky Mitten Avatar to upgrade to the Magnebot if possible. 

### Key differences

- The Magnebot uses Unity's new ArticulationBody component instead of the old HingeJoint component used by the Sticky Mitten Avatar. HingeJoints tend to stretch or glitch; ArticulationBodies don't have these problems.
- The Magnebot is a robot, not an avatar. It won't respond to avatar commands such as `turn_avatar_by` and it doesn't initialize with a camera. See [this document](../misc_frontend/robots.md) for more information.
- The Sticky Mitten Avatar responds to both physics and non-physics commands. The Magnebot responds only to certain physics commands.
- The Sticky Mitten Avatar moves around the scene by having forces continuously applied to it. The Magnebot has wheels (which in the API are just revolute joints without angle limits) that turn to move it forward.
- Magnebot has a somewhat difference shape and size than the Sticky Mitten Avatar.
- There are two variants of the Sticky Mitten Avatar: "A_StickyMitten_Adult" and "A_StickyMitten_Baby". There is only one Magnebot. However, the Magnebot can slide its torso up and down. You can constrain the height of the torso to be similar to either of the Sticky Mitten Avatars.
- The Sticky Mitten Avatar can pick up objects nearby a mitten (`pick_up_proximity`) or adjacent to a mitten (`pick_up`). The Magnebot only picks up objects adjacent to the magnet.
- When using a Sticky Mitten Avatar, the controller must continuously send `pick_up` or `pick_up_proximity` until the output data indicates that the object has been picked up. When using a Magnebot, the controller needs to send `set_magnet_targets`, after which the Magnebot will pick up any of those targets on the frame that the magnet collides with them.
- A Sticky Mitten Avatar picks up objects by attaching a breakable FixedJoint component. A Magnebot picks up objects by temporarily destroying the object's rigidbody and "fusing" it to the magnet. This means:
  - The link between a magnet and the object is unbreakable (and will never glitch) until the object is dropped.
  - Rigidbody commands such as `set_mass` can't be sent to objects held by a magnet.
  - `send_rigidbodies` will return default data for held objects.

### API Comparison

#### Creation and Destruction

| Sticky Mitten Avatar | Magnebot         |
| -------------------- | ---------------- |
| `create_avatar`      | `add_magnebot`   |
| `teleport_avatar_to` | `teleport_robot` |
| `destroy_avatar`     | `destroy_robot`  |

#### Movement

| Sticky Mitten Avatar               | Magnebot                                                     |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `move_avatar_forward_by`           | `set_revolute_target`<br/><br/>Set target angles for the Magnebot's wheels. |
| `set_avatar_drag`                  | `set_immovable`                                              |
| `set_avatar_rigidbody_constraints` | `set_immovable`                                              |
| `turn_avatar_by`                   | `set_revolute_target`<br/><br/>Set target angles for the Magnebot's wheels. |

#### Arm Articulation

| Sticky Mitten Avatar | Magnebot                                                     |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `bend_arm_joint_by`  | `set_revolute_target`<br/>`set_spherical_target`<br/><br/>Add or subtract from the current angles. See: `Robot.get_joint_angles()`. |
| `bend_arm_joint_to`  | `set_revolute_target`<br/>`set_spherical_target`             |
| `pick_up`            | `set_magnet_targets`                                         |
| `put_down`           | `detach_from_magnet`                                         |
| `rotate_waist`       | `set_revolute_target`<br/><br/>Set a target angle for the Magnebot's column. Unlike the Sticky Mitten Avatar, this is a physics motion. |
| `stop_arm_joint`     | `set_revolute_target`<br/>`set_spherical_target`<br/><br/>Set the targets to the current angles. See: `Robot.get_joint_angles()`. |

#### Output Data

| Sticky Mitten Avatar              | Magnebot                           |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| `send_avatars`                    | `send_robots`<br/>`send_magnebots` |
| `send_avatar_segmentation_colors` | `send_static_robots`               |

#### Static Parameters

| Sticky Mitten Avatar                                         | Magnebot                                                     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `adjust_joint_damper_by`<br>`adjust_joint_force_by`<br>`set_joint_damper`<br>`set_joint_force` | `set_robot_joint_drive`<br><br>Get the default joint drive parameters via `send_static_robots`. |
| `set_avatar_mass`                                            | `set_robot_joint_mass`<br><br>Set the mass of the root object. See: `StaticRobot.get_is_root()`. |
| `set_sticky_mitten_profile`                                  | `set_robot_joint_drive`<br>`set_robot_joint_mass`            |
| `set_avatar_physic_material`                                 | `set_robot_joint_physic_material`                            |

#### Unique to the Magnebot

| Command                  | Notes                                           |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| `parent_avatar_to_robot` | [Read this.](../misc_frontend/robots.md)           |
| `set_prismatic_target`   | The torso of the Magnebot can slide up or down. |

#### Unique to the Sticky Mitten Avatar

Listed here are Sticky Mitten Avatar commands specific to the Sticky Mitten Avatar, as opposed to avatars in general. 

All commands normally used for a kinematic avatar (such as image capture commands) are applicable to an avatar parented to a Magnebot via the command `parent_avatar_to_robot`.

| Command                                                    | Notes                                                        |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `adjust_joint_angular_drag_by`<br>`set_joint_angular_drag` | ArticulationBody doesn't have an angular drag parameter.     |
| `apply_force_to_avatar`                                    | The Magnebot can't move laterally because it uses wheels to move. |
| `enable_avatar_transparency`                               |                                                              |
| `pick_up_proximity`                                        | Magnets only "pick up" objects that they collide with.       |
| `rotate_head_by`                                           | The Magnebot doesn't have a head. However, the Magnebot API constrains the camera rotation in a similar manner to this command. |
| `set_avatar_collision_detection_mode`                      | ArticulationBody doesn't have a collision detection mode parameter. |
| `set_avatar_color`                                         |                                                              |
| `set_stickiness`                                           | Magnets don't have discrete "sides" that can individually be "magnetized". |