# PhysicsAudioRecorder

`from tdw.add_ons.physics_audio_recorder import PhysicsAudioRecorder`

Record audio generated by physics events.

***

## Fields

- `max_frames` # If greater than 0, stop recording after this many frames even if objects are still moving or making sound.

- `path` The path to the next audio file.

- `done` If False, there is an ongoing audio.

- `commands` These commands will be appended to the commands of the next `communicate()` call.

- `initialized` If True, this module has been initialized.

***

## Functions

#### \_\_init\_\_

**`PhysicsAudioRecorder()`**

**`PhysicsAudioRecorder(max_frames=-1, record_audio=True)`**

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| max_frames |  int  | -1 | If greater than 0, stop recording after this many frames even if objects are still moving or making sound. |
| record_audio |  bool  | True | If True, record audio to a file. If False, only listen to audio events. |

#### get_initialization_commands

**`self.get_initialization_commands()`**

This function gets called exactly once per add-on. To re-initialize, set `self.initialized = False`.

_Returns:_  A list of commands that will initialize this add-on.

#### on_send

**`self.on_send(resp)`**

This is called after commands are sent to the build and a response is received.

Use this function to send commands to the build on the next frame, given the `resp` response.
Any commands in the `self.commands` list will be sent on the next frame.

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| resp |  List[bytes] |  | The response from the build. |

#### before_send

**`self.before_send(commands)`**

This is called before sending commands to the build. By default, this function doesn't do anything.

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| commands |  List[dict] |  | The commands that are about to be sent to the build. |

#### start

**`self.start()`**

**`self.start(path=None)`**

Start recording.

| Parameter | Type | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| path |  Union[str, Path] | None | The path to the output .wav file. If None, defaults to the current working directory. |

#### stop

**`self.stop()`**

Stop an ongoing recording. Use ffmpeg to remove initial silence.